It is a pleasure for me to write this letter in strong enthusiastic support of NAME acceptance to your school. My experience with NAME began in May 2010 when she started as the Program Manager for the Program. It became obvious early on that NAME thrives in a clinical research environment as she possesses an unprecedented work ethic and a strong interest in the investigative and clinical aspect of research and medicine. NAMES’s unique combination of personal interactive skills, solid scientific background, and willingness to learn has afforded her an admirable level of productivity in a short period of time. In the year that she has been here, NAME managed fourteen research studies through from inception to design, approval, and data collection. I can say without reservations that her work has surpassed my expectations. NAME has played a critical role in building a structural base for our ongoing  Program, a program which enrolls patients at two hospitals and incorporates clinical and basic science research. Part of her success may be attributable to her ability to bring people together to work towards a common goal since many of these studies require extensive interdepartmental collaborations. While in the lab she has worked with attending physicians from numerous departments, residents, medical students, and volunteers.

She not only works well as a member of a multidisciplinary team, she is also an excellent leader as evidenced by her instruction of pre-medical students and medical students in various research methods and statistics and her subsequent supervision of them. NAME’s scientific productivity, ability to extract vital elements from research articles and excellent  writing skills has translated into several journal submissions, including a recently accepted submission to the Journal  entitled “Name of journal article” on which she is first author.

In addition to her other enviable traits, NAME is one of the most compassionate and empathetic individuals I have met. She feels strongly about providing exceptional care to people from all backgrounds and to this end has been instrumental in spearheading a project entitled “NAME OF PROJECT,” analyzing differences in care between two of our hospitals and identifying areas for improvement. While in the lab, NAME worked with me to draft the research plan for a KXX NIH grant. She sought out courses, seminars, and texts to educate herself about grant writing and the science behind the proposal, reviewing over 80 articles and drafting a majority of the background and methods. Her ability to synthesize what she reads into coherent and creative plans will serve her well as a clinician.

NAME will thrive in an PROGRAM program. She is a driven, self-motivated researcher who already possesses a formidable clinical knowledge base. I have watched her approach diverse areas of medicine with equal enthusiasm, an endless willingness to learn from others, and a generosity to share what she knows. She shadowed me on rounds, observed surgeries, participated in journal clubs and didactics with medical students and residents. In my observation of NAME, she has taken opportunities to utilize each and every one of her skills. She will thrive in your PROGRAM, and I imagine that the physicians working with her will be excited to have someone so dedicated, compassionate, and knowledgeable on their team; someone who utilizes each and every one of her skills.

In summary, NAME has a strong personal commitment to her colleagues, a tenacious work ethic and an exceptional drive to provide exceptional clinical care to patients. She approaches complex research questions with an investigative mind and has a strong commitment to public service; qualities that will make her a great physician. I recommend her to your program without hesitation with the hopes that upon completion of the program she might come back as a resident. Please contact me if further information is needed.
