As the first Ph.D. candidate to join Dr. A’s lab, I am honored to have the opportunity to
highly recommend Dr. A, for promotion to Associate Professor of Cell Biology. I met Dr. A
through a referral by Dr. B when I was looking for rotations during my first year of graduate
school. After a short email correspondence, Dr. A invited me to stop by his office to discuss a
rotation in his newly established lab. During the meeting, he took the time to give me a one on
one version of internal faculty seminar he was going to give later in the week that I was going to
be unable to attend because of scheduling conflicts. I was impressed not only by the science
but also by his willingness to take time out of his day to work with a student that he had just met.
That was enough to convince me and I asked him then and there when I could start my rotation
in his lab. This interaction was the beginning of the five-year mentoring relationship I have had
with Dr. A.

I have met with Dr. A one-on- one every week for one to two hours for the past five years
to talk about my research and my progress as a scientist in training. When inevitable problems
do arise in my research, Dr. A encourages me to take the initiative to solve problems on my own
or, if I’m completely stuck, to help me along. He has given me a free hand to pursue my
interests and this has resulted, as one example, in my independently learning how to use the
various bioinformatic tools required to analyze my own and others next generation sequencing
data—a skill that I believe will be indispensable in the future for biomedical research. In addition,
this free hand has led to independent collaborations with both the C and D labs’ as a
contributing author on publications in Cell Stem Cell and Science, respectively.

Finally, Dr. A has been indispensable in my own thesis work which has now entered its
final stages and will result in a publication of its own. He has worked tirelessly with me during
the acquisition of the raw data that is my current body of work and is currently assisting me with
transforming that raw data into publishable figures.

Dr. A is an exemplar of the scientist-mentor and Institute F would be fortunate to count
him among the ranks of its associate professors.
